README.md, before:

# Agents

Composable, graph-driven AI agents (LangGraph) with a live-updatable runtime, Docker-backed tools/MCP, and a minimal UI.

Quick links
- Server: [packages/platform-server](packages/platform-server) — runtime, triggers, tools, MCP, graph persistence
- UI: [packages/platform-ui](packages/platform-ui) — graph builder and checkpoint stream viewer
- Docs: [docs/README.md](docs/README.md) — technical overview, contributing, MCP design
 
- Tools: [docs/tools/remind_me.md](docs/tools/remind_me.md) — RemindMe tool behavior and usage

Getting started
- Architecture and setup: [docs/technical-overview.md](docs/technical-overview.md)
- Contribution workflow & style guides: [docs/contributing/index.md](docs/contributing/index.md)

Development services
- docker compose up -d mongo1 mongo-setup mongo-express jaeger
- Optional: start Vault for dev secret flows: `docker compose up -d vault vault-init`
  - Set VAULT_ENABLED=true, VAULT_ADDR, VAULT_TOKEN in packages/platform-server/.env
  - See docs/security/vault.md

Postgres checkpointer (optional)
- Start Postgres only: `docker compose up -d postgres`
- Configure server env:
  - `LANGGRAPH_CHECKPOINTER=postgres`
  - `POSTGRES_URL=postgresql://postgres:postgres@localhost:5442/postgres?sslmode=disable`
- Note: The UI checkpoint stream currently depends on Mongo change streams and won’t reflect Postgres writes in this initial version.

Slack integration
- Use Vault-managed secrets and the Graph UI templates for SlackTrigger and SendSlackMessageTool.
  - Setup: docs/security/vault.md
  - UI reference: docs/ui/graph/README.md

Docker-in-Docker and registry mirror (Issue #99)
- Workspace containers can opt-in to a per-workspace Docker daemon via `DOCKER_HOST=tcp://localhost:2375`; this port is only reachable inside the workspace namespace and is not published on the host.
- A lightweight registry mirror runs as a compose service `registry-mirror` on the shared network `agents_net`. It is HTTP-only and only reachable within that network.
- Override the mirror by setting `DOCKER_MIRROR_URL` (default `http://registry-mirror:5000`).

Server graph store configuration
- GRAPH_STORE: `mongo` | `git` (default `mongo`)
- GRAPH_REPO_PATH: path to local git repo (default `./data/graph`)
- GRAPH_BRANCH: branch name (default `graph-state`)
- GRAPH_AUTHOR_NAME / GRAPH_AUTHOR_EMAIL: default commit author

Git graph storage (format: 2)
- Root-level files/directories: `graph.meta.json`, `nodes/`, `edges/`, and advisory lock `.graph.lock`.
- Filenames use encodeURIComponent(id); edge ids are deterministic: `<src>-<srcH>__<tgt>-<tgtH>`.
- Writes are atomic per-entity; meta is written last; `.graph.lock` guards concurrent writers.

Migration
- From legacy layouts (monolithic `graphs/<name>/graph.json` or per-entity under `graphs/<name>/`), run:
  `tsx packages/platform-server/scripts/migrate_graph_to_git.ts`
- Behavior: always writes a single graph to the repository root (single-graph layout):
  - `graph.meta.json` containing `{ name, version, updatedAt, format: 2 }`
  - `nodes/<encodeURIComponent(id)>.json` and `edges/<encodeURIComponent(edgeId)>.json`
  - Deterministic edge id: `${source}-${sourceHandle}__${target}-${targetHandle}`
  - Removes legacy `graphs/` directory via `git rm -r --ignore-unmatch graphs` (with fs fallback)
- Graph selection rules:
  - If `GRAPH_NAME` is set, migrate only that graph.
  - If `GRAPH_NAME` is not set: if exactly one graph exists in Mongo, migrate it; if zero, exit non-zero with a clear message; if more than one, exit non-zero with a message instructing to set `GRAPH_NAME`.
- Idempotency: commit only when staged changes exist; reruns are no-ops.
- Commit message: `chore(graph): migrate to single-graph root layout: <name> v<version> (+N nodes, +M edges)`.
- Env: `MONGODB_URL` (default `mongodb://localhost:27017/agents`), `GRAPH_REPO_PATH` (default `./data/graph`), `GRAPH_BRANCH` (default `graph-state`), `GRAPH_AUTHOR_NAME`, `GRAPH_AUTHOR_EMAIL`, `GRAPH_NAME` (optional).

LiteLLM proxy (optional)
- See docs/litellm-setup.md for setup.
- Toggle for local dev:
  - Route via LiteLLM:
    - OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-<virtual-key>
    - OPENAI_BASE_URL=http://localhost:4000/v1  # note: /v1 suffix is required
  - Direct to OpenAI:
    - unset OPENAI_BASE_URL
    - OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-<real-openai-key>

Commit message:

fix(server): resolve merge conflicts in index.ts; preserve Ncps init and LiteLLM auto-provision startup

README.md, after:

# Agents

Composable, graph-driven AI agents (LangGraph) with a live-updatable runtime, Docker-backed tools/MCP, and a minimal UI.

Quick links
- Server: [packages/platform-server](packages/platform-server) — runtime, triggers, tools, MCP, graph persistence
- UI: [packages/platform-ui](packages/platform-ui) — graph builder and checkpoint stream viewer
- Docs: [docs/README.md](docs/README.md) — technical overview, contributing, MCP design
 
- Tools: [docs/tools/remind_me.md](docs/tools/remind_me.md) — RemindMe tool behavior and usage

Getting started
- Architecture and setup: [docs/technical-overview.md](docs/technical-overview.md)
- Contribution workflow & style guides: [docs/contributing/index.md](docs/contributing/index.md)

Development services
- docker compose up -d mongo1 mongo-setup mongo-express jaeger
- Optional: start Vault for dev secret flows: `docker compose up -d vault vault-init`
  - Set VAULT_ENABLED=true, VAULT_ADDR, VAULT_TOKEN in packages/platform-server/.env
  - See docs/security/vault.md

Postgres checkpointer (optional)
- Start Postgres only: `docker compose up -d postgres`
- Configure server env:
  - `LANGGRAPH_CHECKPOINTER=postgres`
  - `POSTGRES_URL=postgresql://postgres:postgres@localhost:5442/postgres?sslmode=disable`
- Note: The UI checkpoint stream currently depends on Mongo change streams and won’t reflect Postgres writes in this initial version.

Slack integration
- Use Vault-managed secrets and the Graph UI templates for SlackTrigger and SendSlackMessageTool.
  - Setup: docs/security/vault.md
  - UI reference: docs/ui/graph/README.md

Docker-in-Docker and registry mirror (Issue #99)
- Workspace containers can opt-in to a per-workspace Docker daemon via `DOCKER_HOST=tcp://localhost:2375`; this port is only reachable inside the workspace namespace and is not published on the host.
- A lightweight registry mirror runs as a compose service `registry-mirror` on the shared network `agents_net`. It is HTTP-only and only reachable within that network.
- Override the mirror by setting `DOCKER_MIRROR_URL` (default `http://registry-mirror:5000`).

Server graph store configuration
- GRAPH_STORE: `mongo` | `git` (default `mongo`)
- GRAPH_REPO_PATH: path to local git repo (default `./data/graph`)
- GRAPH_BRANCH: branch name (default `graph-state`)
- GRAPH_AUTHOR_NAME / GRAPH_AUTHOR_EMAIL: default commit author

Git graph storage (format: 2)
- Root-level files/directories: `graph.meta.json`, `nodes/`, `edges/`, and advisory lock `.graph.lock`.
- Filenames use encodeURIComponent(id); edge ids are deterministic: `<src>-<srcH>__<tgt>-<tgtH>`.
- Writes are atomic per-entity; meta is written last; `.graph.lock` guards concurrent writers.

Migration
- From legacy layouts (monolithic `graphs/<name>/graph.json` or per-entity under `graphs/<name>/`), run:
  `tsx packages/platform-server/scripts/migrate_graph_to_git.ts`
- Behavior: always writes a single graph to the repository root (single-graph layout):
  - `graph.meta.json` containing `{ name, version, updatedAt, format: 2 }`
  - `nodes/<encodeURIComponent(id)>.json` and `edges/<encodeURIComponent(edgeId)>.json`
  - Deterministic edge id: `${source}-${sourceHandle}__${target}-${targetHandle}`
  - Removes legacy `graphs/` directory via `git rm -r --ignore-unmatch graphs` (with fs fallback)
- Graph selection rules:
  - If `GRAPH_NAME` is set, migrate only that graph.
  - If `GRAPH_NAME` is not set: if exactly one graph exists in Mongo, migrate it; if zero, exit non-zero with a clear message; if more than one, exit non-zero with a message instructing to set `GRAPH_NAME`.
- Idempotency: commit only when staged changes exist; reruns are no-ops.
- Commit message: `chore(graph): migrate to single-graph root layout: <name> v<version> (+N nodes, +M edges)`.
- Env: `MONGODB_URL` (default `mongodb://localhost:27017/agents`), `GRAPH_REPO_PATH` (default `./data/graph`), `GRAPH_BRANCH` (default `graph-state`), `GRAPH_AUTHOR_NAME`, `GRAPH_AUTHOR_EMAIL`, `GRAPH_NAME` (optional).

LiteLLM proxy (optional)
- See docs/litellm-setup.md for full setup.
- Auto-provisioning (recommended):
  - Set LITELLM_BASE_URL and LITELLM_MASTER_KEY; leave OPENAI_API_KEY unset.
  - Server will generate a virtual key on startup and set OPENAI_API_KEY/OPENAI_BASE_URL.
- Direct to OpenAI:
  - Set OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-<real-openai-key>; unset LITELLM_* envs.
