docs/security/vault.md, before:

HashiCorp Vault integration (dev)

Overview
- Dev-only Vault integration to source container env vars and GitHub Clone token via Vault KV v2.
- Secrets are resolved server-side only; values are never returned to the browser and are redacted in logs.

Dev setup
1) Start Vault and seed example secrets:
   - docker compose up -d vault vault-init
   - Vault UI/API available at http://localhost:8200 (token: dev-root)
   - KV v2 is enabled at mount `secret/` and an example token is seeded at `secret/github` with key `GH_TOKEN`.
2) Configure server env (apps/server/.env):
   - VAULT_ENABLED=true
   - VAULT_ADDR=http://localhost:8200
   - VAULT_TOKEN=dev-root

Workspace env vars
- In the Workspace node (containerProvider) static config, add plain env under `env`.
- For Vault-backed vars, add entries under `envRefs` with fields: mount (default secret), path, key, optional.
- On provision, the server resolves envRefs and injects values into the container environment.

GitHub Clone Repo auth
- The GitHub Clone tool static config accepts `authRef` to override the token source:
  - source=env -> read from a process env var name (default GH_TOKEN)
  - source=vault -> resolve from Vault using mount/path/key (defaults secret/github/GH_TOKEN)
- If not set or resolution fails, the server falls back to ConfigService.githubToken.

Autocomplete endpoints
- When VAULT_ENABLED=true, the server exposes:
  - GET /api/vault/mounts -> { items: string[] }
  - GET /api/vault/kv/:mount/paths?prefix=foo -> { items: string[] }
  - GET /api/vault/kv/:mount/keys?path=github -> { items: string[] }
- These return metadata only (no values) and are intended for UI autocompletion.

Security notes
- Logs never include secret values; only references (mount/path/key) and high-level errors are logged.
- This dev integration uses a root token and a dev server; do not use in production.

Commit message:

feat(config): source-aware references for env and GitHub token (Issue #113) (#114)
* feat(config,#113): unify env and token references with source-aware fields

- ContainerProvider: add env array [{key,value,source}], prefer over legacy env/envRefs; implement parseVaultRef() and validation; duplicate keys disallowed.
- GithubCloneRepo tool: add token {value,source}, prefer over legacy authRef; resolve Vault refs; fallback to ConfigService.githubToken.
- Expose only new fields in templates; remove envRefs/authRef from exposed schemas.
- UI: add ReferenceField and ReferenceEnvField; register in field registry; wire meta ui:field; basic validation.
- Docs: update Vault docs to new shapes and backward compatibility.
- Tests: add server and UI tests for parsing and token resolution.

* refactor(#113): batch Vault lookups; share parseVaultRef; tighten types; UI fixes\n\n- Batch env and envRefs vault resolutions with Promise.all.\n- Extract shared parseVaultRef in server utils and reuse.\n- Tighten Zod types and remove any casts where feasible.\n- UI: fix duplicate key detection and unique datalist ids.\n- Extend tests for token fallbacks, legacy compatibility, and error paths.

* chore(#113): address review nits\n\n- Remove duplicate parseVaultRef; use shared util.\n- Replace any/casts with z.infer types in github_clone_repo.\n- Fix ReferenceEnvField add() guard and error class for new key.\n- Add missing vi import in UI test.\n- Tidy containerProvider env types.

docs/security/vault.md, after:

HashiCorp Vault integration (dev)

Overview
- Dev-only Vault integration to source container env vars and GitHub Clone token via Vault KV v2.
- Secrets are resolved server-side only; values are never returned to the browser and are redacted in logs.
- New config shapes unify static and secret-backed references via a `source` selector.

Dev setup
1) Start Vault and seed example secrets:
   - docker compose up -d vault vault-init
   - Vault UI/API available at http://localhost:8200 (token: dev-root)
   - KV v2 is enabled at mount `secret/` and an example token is seeded at `secret/github` with key `GH_TOKEN`.
2) Configure server env (apps/server/.env):
   - VAULT_ENABLED=true
   - VAULT_ADDR=http://localhost:8200
   - VAULT_TOKEN=dev-root

Workspace env vars
- In the Workspace node (containerProvider) static config, use the unified env array:
  - env: Array<{ key: string; value: string; source?: 'static' | 'vault' }>
  - When source='static' (default), `value` is used as-is.
  - When source='vault', `value` must be a Vault reference string: `mount/path/key`.
- On provision, the server resolves vault-backed entries and injects values into the container environment.
- Backward compatibility: legacy `env` (map) and `envRefs` are still accepted at runtime, but are no longer advertised via templates or UI.

GitHub Clone Repo auth
- New: `token?: { value: string; source?: 'static' | 'vault' }`
  - source='static' -> `value` is the token string.
  - source='vault' -> `value` is `mount/path/key` and is resolved from Vault.
- Fallbacks: if not provided or resolution fails, server falls back to `ConfigService.githubToken`.
- Backward compatibility: legacy `authRef` remains supported at runtime but is not shown in templates.

Autocomplete endpoints
- When VAULT_ENABLED=true, the server exposes:
  - GET /api/vault/mounts -> { items: string[] }
  - GET /api/vault/kv/:mount/paths?prefix=foo -> { items: string[] }
  - GET /api/vault/kv/:mount/keys?path=github -> { items: string[] }
- These return metadata only (no values) and are intended for UI autocompletion.

Security notes
- Logs never include secret values; only references (mount/path/key) and high-level errors are logged.
- This dev integration uses a root token and a dev server; do not use in production.
