docs/tools/send_message.md, before:

SendMessage tool

- Name: send_message
- Purpose: Send a text message to the thread’s Slack channel using the stored descriptor.

Schema

```
{
  message: string;
}
```

Behavior

- Requires ctx.threadId; loads `Thread.channel` and validates the Slack-only descriptor.
- Uses SlackAdapter directly; no registry or multi-channel support in v1.
- Returns plain text responses: `message sent successfully` on success, otherwise an error code/message string.
- Logs adapter type and identifiers; does not log full text.

Slack-only descriptor and token resolution

- `SlackTrigger` writes the descriptor on ingress only when `identifiers.channel` is present: `{ type: 'slack', version: number, identifiers: { channel, thread_ts? } }`.
- No tokens are persisted. `SlackTrigger` requires a `bot_token` in node config and resolves it during setup/provision only.
- `SendMessage` uses the `SlackTrigger`'s resolved `bot_token` to call `SlackAdapter`.

Migration

- Add `Thread.channel` (Json?).
- `SlackTrigger` populates the descriptor on ingress for new threads when channel is present; skips otherwise.

Commit message:

feat(manage): finalize thread transport integration

docs/tools/send_message.md, after:

# SendMessage tool

- Name: `send_message`
- Purpose: Send a plain-text message back to the thread's origin channel through the configured channel node.

Schema

```
{
  message: string;
}
```

Behavior

- Requires `ctx.threadId`. Uses `ThreadTransportService.sendTextToThread` to look up the persisted `channelNodeId` for the current thread and delegate delivery to the resolved node.
- The channel node must implement `sendToChannel(threadId, text)`; Manage, SlackTrigger, and any future channel adapters satisfy this interface.
- Returns `message sent successfully` when the transport succeeds; otherwise returns the error string produced by the transport service (e.g. `missing_channel_node`, `channel_node_unavailable`, `unsupported_channel_node`, or adapter-specific failures).
- Validation: rejects missing thread context or empty `message` payload at the schema layer (min length 1).

Notes

- Manage registers itself as the channel node for child threads when mediating worker communication. SlackTrigger (and other ingress adapters) set the channel node for user-originated threads.
- Errors are surfaced to the caller without additional formatting to simplify tool reasoning and retry behavior.
