docs/summarization.md, before:

Conversation summarization

This repository supports rolling conversation summarization to manage model context. The summarization keeps the last K messages verbatim and folds older history into a concise summary, ensuring the model input stays under a token budget.

Key concepts
- keepLast (K): Number of most recent messages to keep verbatim.
- maxTokens: Token budget for the model input built from [summary-as-system?, ...last K].
- summary: Rolling summary text updated by the LLM as conversation grows.

How it works (centralized in SummarizationNode)
1) Before each model call, the graph runs a SummarizationNode which is responsible for:
   - Determining if summarization is needed by computing tokens for [System(summary)?, ...last K] and comparing to maxTokens.
   - If needed and there is a tail (older than last K), updating the rolling summary by folding the tail.
   - Building the final trimmed context for the model ([System(summary)?, ...last K] capped to maxTokens) and writing it into state.messages.
2) CallModelNode simply prepends System(systemPrompt) to the state.messages and invokes the model.

Prompting
- System: You update a running summary of a conversation. Keep key facts, goals, decisions, constraints, names, deadlines, and follow-ups. Be concise; use compact sentences; omit chit-chat.
- Human: Previous summary: <summary or (none)>; Fold in the following messages: <older>; Return only the updated summary.

Budgeting and trimming
- The SummarizationNode uses trimMessages from @langchain/core/messages with includeSystem=true and tokenCounter=llm to ensure the final context fits within maxTokens.
- countTokens() uses llm.getNumTokens() and is used by shouldSummarize() to determine whether to summarize.

Configuration
- SimpleAgent.setConfig accepts:
  - summarizationKeepLast: integer >= 0
  - summarizationMaxTokens: integer > 0
- When both are set, SummarizationNode performs summarization and stores trimmed context into state.messages.
- When unset, behavior is unchanged and all messages are sent.

Examples
- Configure at runtime:
  agent.setConfig({ summarizationKeepLast: 4, summarizationMaxTokens: 4096 });

Notes
- Summary is stored in the agent state, default ''.
- System prompt is always prepended to the final input by CallModelNode.

Commit message:

docs: audit cleanup per #244 — remove legacy Slack migration; drop duplicate UI components doc; update Slack integration links; align UI endpoints; clarify graph config persistence; summarization config/token budgeting; MCP resilience implemented; env overlays schema; obs Node 20+ scope

docs/summarization.md, after:

Conversation summarization

This repository supports rolling conversation summarization to manage model context. The summarization keeps the last K messages verbatim and folds older history into a concise summary, ensuring the model input stays under a token budget.

Key concepts
- summarizationKeepTokens: Token budget reserved for the most recent verbatim tail of the conversation. The system trims older messages into the rolling summary while keeping up to this many tokens of the newest messages intact.
- summarizationMaxTokens: Total token budget for the final model input built from [System(summary)?, ...recent tail].
- summary: Rolling summary text updated by the LLM as conversation grows.

How it works (centralized in SummarizationNode)
1) Before each model call, the graph runs a SummarizationNode which is responsible for:
   - Determining if summarization is needed by computing tokens for [System(summary)?, ...recent tail] and comparing to summarizationMaxTokens.
   - If needed and there is older history beyond the verbatim tail, updating the rolling summary by folding the tail remainder.
   - Building the final trimmed context for the model ([System(summary)?, ...recent tail] capped to summarizationMaxTokens while preserving up to summarizationKeepTokens for the latest messages) and writing it into state.messages.
2) CallModelNode simply prepends System(systemPrompt) to the state.messages and invokes the model.

Prompting
- System: You update a running summary of a conversation. Keep key facts, goals, decisions, constraints, names, deadlines, and follow-ups. Be concise; use compact sentences; omit chit-chat.
- Human: Previous summary: <summary or (none)>; Fold in the following messages: <older>; Return only the updated summary.

Budgeting and trimming
- The SummarizationNode uses trimMessages from @langchain/core/messages with includeSystem=true and tokenCounter=llm to ensure the final context fits within maxTokens.
- countTokens() uses llm.getNumTokens() and is used by shouldSummarize() to determine whether to summarize.

Configuration
- SimpleAgent.setConfig accepts:
  - summarizationKeepTokens: integer >= 0
  - summarizationMaxTokens: integer > 0
- When both are set, SummarizationNode performs summarization and stores trimmed context into state.messages; budgeting preserves up to summarizationKeepTokens of the newest content verbatim within the overall summarizationMaxTokens limit.
- When unset, behavior is unchanged and all messages are sent.

Examples
- Configure at runtime:
  agent.setConfig({ summarizationKeepTokens: 512, summarizationMaxTokens: 4096 });

Notes
- Summary is stored in the agent state, default ''.
- System prompt is always prepended to the final input by CallModelNode.
